Updating and fetching posts, that's all working and that's great
and we're making good progress.
Sure
authentication is missing and I also want to add an image upload soon
but there's one thing I want to do in this module still before we move on to such features and that
is our backend.
Right now we're organizing everything in app.js
and this is ok, it's still no super big file but I actually want to organize my routes here differently
because we'll later add more routes for authentication and so on
and I really want to group them.
So just as we have a folder and file structure on the frontend, I want to have one on the backend.
So besides our models folder which we're using for the post model right now, I'll add another folder and
I'll name it routes and then I want to organize the routes for our backend.
I'll add a new subfolder and name it post.js
in the routes folder now, excuse me, posts.js
actually because it's for all our posts. Now in there, I want to add all my posts routes and I will
actually use another feature provided by express, its own router. For that
I'll first of all import express here with require express in that new posts.js file and then I will set up
the express router by creating a new constant which I'll name router, the name is up to you as always,
where I will simply execute express and there,
the router constructor.
So now I got my router here and now I just wanted to define my routes and just as we did it with app in
app.js here, app post app get,
we can now use router get and so on here and it essentially works in exactly the same way as it did
before.
So now here, we can for example replicate this post route by grabbing its
url, make this a post route here,
pass the url as the first argument and then this function here as a second argument and therefore
we can of course simply grab all these routes here,
cut them from the app.js file and add them here and simply replace app with router.
Alternatively, named this app but I want to stick to router to make this really clear that it's an extra
feature. Now I'll simply select all apps here and replace them with router and we're pretty good to go.
Now we need to export this router to make express aware of it or to be able to make it aware of it.
For that I'll use the node exports syntax with node module exports and simply export the entire router
object.
Now with that, we need to import it into app.js so that we can again make our main express app
aware of these extra routes because right now, all our routes would fail.
So back in the app.js file, I will import something here, maybe above the post model,
oh by the way, the post model I need to import that in my route file here in the post file now because
that is where I used that post model,
so let's go to the top there and actually import posts here.
The path changed,
now we need to go up one level because we're in the routes folder and then into the models folder.
So now we have the post model imported into the routes file,
we don't need it in the app.js file, here we're never accessing it and now I can import my posts
routes
by simply requiring ./routes posts.
So now this router object is imported and stored in this post routes constant here and now to make express
aware of it, I can simply call app use posts routes and this will do the trick.
We can finetune this however,
actually later we'll have multiple routes files and this one should only handle routes which reach API
posts slash nothing or slash something, like that ID.
So I want to cut that part here and assume that any route or any request reaching that file already
was filtered for that so that I can then add this here in app.js as a first argument of app use, here
I will filter for requests going to API posts and only requests
where the url or the path of the url
starts with that will be forwarded into the posts routes file and routing setup. And then in here, we
don't have to check for this again because it will already have been filtered for that and it will also
be stripped off that by the way,
so the path we're looking at here will actually be the path after whatever we added here and there
for now,
here we have our post request,
we now also remove it for the put request, we leave the ID here though because that's some extra
addition to the path which is important here, for the get request we remove it all, for the posts request
down there we just leave the ID, here we remove that and now we get a path set up,
let's add the slash again where we should still have a working app as before and we can test this by for example
deleting
this, seems to work,
also if I reload, where we can add a new post again so let's also try this and where we now just have
a nicer set up on the backend.